[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
We are going around the
globe with Brad Olsen, author
of nine books, including two
in his "Esoteric" series--
"Modern Esoteric" and
"Future Esoteric."
And Brad is just returned
studying megaliths
in South America.
And you are here to tell us
about this, Mister Indiana
Jones.
How are you?
Welcome back.
>>BRAD OLSEN: Thanks, George.
Glad to be back, and
what an adventure it was.
>>NOORY: Tell me
about the logistics,
getting to South
America and looking
at some of these structures.
>>OLSEN: Well, I did
things a little bit
differently, because I was going
down there for four months.
So I bought a vehicle in South
America in Santiago, Chile,
and drove all the way up from
Santiago, Chile to Cusco, Peru,
and then met up with Nassim
Haramein and Brien Foerster
in the Resonance Academy
tour of sacred places in Peru
and Bolivia.
There was a point where we were
going over a mountain pass that
was 16,600 feet high.
So it had to be a sturdy
vehicle, and it was.
>>NOORY: They had a road
to get up that high?
>>OLSEN: There was.
Up on the Altiplano,
the elevations
are unbelievably
elevated because it
is such a high plateau.
Lake Titicaca itself
is at 12,500 feet.
>>NOORY: Did you need
any governmental approval
when you went to look
at some of these sites?
>>OLSEN: The sites are
basically tourist sites,
as if we are going to a national
park here in this country.
You have to pay an
admission for most of them.
But there is no real
governmental approval,
so much as just paying
to access the sites.
>>NOORY: Tell us
about the megaliths.
What were you looking for?
>>OLSEN: Well, what's so
fascinating about the region
in Peru around the
sacred valley is,
it's the highest concentration
of megaliths in the world.
So it's only a matter
of a couple miles--
and sometimes along
the Inca Trail--
to go from site
to site, and we're
talking about blocks that
could be as large as 70 tons.
>>NOORY: How do they
move these things?
>>OLSEN: That's
the big question.
>>NOORY: It's like
the pyramid secret.
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
And there are many
parallels with ancient Egypt
with pre-Incan Peru as how
these building techniques were
employed and how the blocks
were brought to the site.
>>NOORY: When you were
looking at the blocks,
Brad, was there any
thoughts in your head about,
how do they really do this,
when you look at them?
>>OLSEN: That's
the first thought
that goes through your
mind, because the precision
of the fit is so incredible
that you can't even
put a piece of paper or a credit
card or anything in there.
>>NOORY: Or a razor blade.
>>OLSEN: Or even a razor blade.
And these lines are just not
your straight 90 degree lines.
They go at curvatures
and different angles.
>>NOORY: So it's like a puzzle?
>>OLSEN: Correct.
Which is earthquake-proof,
and that's why the oldest
megaliths-- similar to Egypt--
are the best preserved.
>>NOORY: You mentioned
Brien Foerster.
Great researcher.
And you went through
the Peru area with him?
>>OLSEN: Correct.
And he is on the cutting
edge of redefining
many of these monuments,
looking at what
established historians would
say were created by the Incan.
He is saying, they're all
pre-Incan, the large megaliths.
And the evidence is, you can
see the Inca construction
on top of the old megaliths.
>>NOORY: After the fact.
>>OLSEN: After the fact.
>>NOORY: Let's Look at
the little video on Brien.
>>OLSEN: -Sure.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- The site of Sacsayhuamán,
or [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]..
This is the largest polygonal
wall in the Americas.
The Quarry is eight kilometers,
or five miles, away.
The question is, how
were these stones
moved from the
quarry which is up
and over a series of mountains?
Conventional archeology
says that, because there
was a high population
in Cusco, people
would be able to simply roll the
stones on top of wooden rollers
that sort of distance, and
pulling with ropes, et cetera,
et cetera.
But they can't explain
how something of this size
was cut from the
bedrock wall, A. And B,
the fact is that, in Inca
times, the only trees that
grew in this area are
small scrub trees that
do not have straight--
not stems, but trunks.
And so the alternative
explanation
is that this was built thousands
of years before the Inca,
and was done by a race that
understood and utilized forms
of resonance and vibration--
in other words, lost
ancient high technology.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Lost ancient
high technology.
That's amazing.
>>OLSEN: That is amazing.
And what Brien
mentioned, the quarries
were often many miles
away, and up and over
through river valleys as well.
Why would they go
to so much trouble?
>>NOORY: You mean
to tell me they
put blocks on rollers of wood
trunks and pulled it along?
Come on.
>>OLSEN: Come on.
I wouldn't tell you
that either, George.
And the other thing is, we were
way up above the tree line.
Trees only grow to about 12,000
feet, and as Brian mentioned,
they're just shrubbery
trees as well.
So they wouldn't have
the big logs anyways
to do this kind of pulling and
rolling of these giant blocks.
Plus, they would just
smash the wood anyways.
They're so big and heavy.
>>NOORY: What did they have?
High technology?
>>OLSEN: We could
say that there were
some kind of technology
employed that we're still
not understanding.
Where that came from, I
guess, is the big question,
because to get some of
these blocks from a quarry--
for example, another site we
visited called Ollantaytambo,
it's way up on a mountain
top, down a valley
floor, across a
river, and then up
another mountain to place
them at this location called
the Valley of the Sun.
How did they get them
from point A to point B?
>>NOORY: And it's
anybody's guess.
>>OLSEN: Sometimes the
road is not even existent.
>>NOORY: Well, I'm glad we
looked at the video too, Brad,
because it showed us how
you were talking about how
some of the stones were cut
out in a circular type fashion,
and they just fit right into
another piece perfectly.
How do you do that?
>>OLSEN: So we are talking about
techniques called cold fusion,
or cold plasma techniques, or
possibly using certain minerals
or elements to make
the stone soft--
make the stone soft
and then fit it
so you get that precise
fit at a curvature angle.
And by doing that, you create
these polygon blocks that
fit together so precisely that,
because of all the earthquakes
that have hit South America,
being on the Ring of Fire,
those constructions
are still very
much in place, where the newer
ones on top of the older blocks
have since crumbled and
are not in such good shape.
>>NOORY: Yeah that object
there looked earthquake-proof.
Tell me about that
structure itself.
>>OLSEN: So this was
filmed at Sacsayhuamán,
which is above
the city of Cusco,
which also has a wealth
of megalithic sites.
These are some of the largest
blocks in the Americas,
as Brien pointed out.
We're talking
about 20 feet tall.
>>NOORY: Tons and tons.
>>OLSEN: Many, many tons.
And it's this wall that
just undulates in and out,
in and out, several layers up on
one side of a flat area, which
was used for ritual purposes.
And there were
other features here,
which included
underground chambers
that you could walk through.
So you go into pitch black.
That may affect
a person's light.
And we also saw evidence
of a major cataclysm--
that there were massive
boulders that were upended,
with staircases underneath.
Nobody would do
that for any reason.
>>NOORY: When you see this,
Brad, up front and personal,
does it shock you?
>>OLSEN: It really does,
because what you're looking at
is something like the Great
Pyramids, that still defies
explanation, and is
so massive in scale
you just have to wonder,
why would they build so big?
Wouldn't it be easier
to do smaller blocks?
But they didn't.
They built to impress.
>>NOORY: They did.
Tell us about
auditive levitation.
>>OLSEN: Well,
this is a technique
where you're matching the
sound waves of matter.
And again, we're talking
about a science that
is still not yet understood.
Now you could watch
YouTube videos
and see bowling balls
levitated, or mice that
are still squirming around.
It doesn't seem to
hurt living organisms.
But levitation is
a real technology
that we're discovering.
Now, how they do it on such
a large scale and levitate--
>>NOORY: We don't know that yet.
>>OLSEN: We don't know that yet.
>>NOORY: Ed Leedskalnin
at Coral Castle
down in Homestead, Florida used
something I think very similar.
And he also said he knew
the secrets of the pyramids.
Somebody somewhere has
lost this technology.
>>OLSEN: It has
been lost in time,
but perhaps now it's
finally being rediscovered.
And it does tie in many of
these megalithic sites that
don't have an explanation for
how these massive blocks were
moved.
Now we can start
talking about it
in new science kind
of ways, which maybe
perhaps this ancient science.
>>NOORY: And do you agree with
Brien Foerster's assessment
about, who knows how?
>>OLSEN: I do, as well as
the aging of these sites.
Just as in the same way that
Robert Schoch has re-dated
the Sphinx in Egypt, Brien and
Nassim Haramein are leading
the charge with the new
science, understanding that
the pre-Incans--
not the Incas themselves,
but a culture many thousands
of years older, that
were pre-cataclysmistic,
that they were here before there
were some great Earth changes.
And again, we saw evidence
at many of these sites
that there was some kind of
cataclysm that moved around
some of these megalithic
blocks, or even tumbled
over other ones.
>>NOORY: Well, where
did they go, Brad?
Because wherever they may
be, they took this technology
with them.
>>OLSEN: Maybe they
took it to the grave.
Perhaps they were the ancestors
of Atlantis who had survived,
or perhaps they were the
Atlanteans themselves.
>>NOORY: But should there
not be some of them left?
>>OLSEN: Maybe they're us,
many generations later.
>>NOORY: But how did
we lose the knowledge?
What happened?
That's the one thing
I don't understand
about the pyramids in Egypt.
Somebody knew how it happened.
Somebody knew how it worked.
Why did we seem to lose that
knowledge of all these places?
There seems to be a gap.
Why?
>>OLSEN: Well, there
does seem to be a cycle
that we go through on Earth.
The Indians call
it the Kali Yuga
that we have just come
through, a period of forgetting
or a period of amnesia.
And of course, our friend Eric
von Daniken speaks of history
is a lie, and we're in
this period of amnesia,
and we're just coming out of it.
So this kind of technology to
build megaliths on this scale
may not seem practical in
construction terms today,
but I think they are leaving
behind clues saying, hey,
this is what we are
able to achieve.
Maybe someday you'll
be able to replicate.
>>NOORY: You agree with that?
>>OLSEN: Well, I think there's
hardly any other explanations
to build on such a scale.
Perhaps it's the aesthetics
of seeing something
so big and beautiful,
but also the impression
you gain when you're standing
right in front of it--
>>NOORY: Oh my gosh.
>>OLSEN: --and seeing something
almost as tall as the ceilins
here.
>>NOORY: It's got
to be awe-inspiring.
>>OLSEN: It truly is.
>>NOORY: And we're dealing
with several things.
One is, how did they
get the blocks there?
How did they cut
the blocks there?
How did they then
lift the blocks
at the site to build a
structure, the megalith?
How did that happen?
>>OLSEN: And we see no signs
of chisel marks either.
But you have this
marshmallowing effect.
So the boulders not only
show no signs of chiseling,
have exact precise fits, but
kind of bulge out a little bit,
and once in a while will have
these little nodes like--
if we're talking about using
this cold plasma technology,
it was a cooling effect.
And when it cooled,
gravity brought
it down and sometimes
created these little knobs
at the bottom of the megalith
that conventional archeologists
still have no explanation
why they're there.
>>NOORY: How intelligent
were past civilizations?
>>OLSEN: I think
they're not getting
the kind of credibility
or street cred,
so to speak that they should.
>>NOORY: They deserve.
>>OLSEN: That they deserve.
And obviously, they have done
things that we still can't even
replicate.
>>NOORY: And that is
an incredible question.
Here we are 3,000,
4,000, 5,000 years later,
and we still can't figure
out how they did it.
Something's weird here.
>>OLSEN: Do you remember? about
a decade ago in Japan they
tried to replicate a small scale
version of the Great Pyramid,
and they failed miserably.
>>NOORY: They couldn't do it.
>>OLSEN: Couldn't do it.
>>OLSEN: So we
couldn't even try to do
some of these megalithic
buildings in South America
if we tried.
There just isn't the crane
capacity or the building
capacity to do such things.
So we must be talking
about a new science,
or a forgotten science
that perhaps we're
just rediscovering.
>>NOORY: What does your
gut tell you about this?
>>OLSEN: My gut
tells me that there
was an antediluvian
civilization on this planet that
had high technology.
Perhaps not nearly as many
people as we are today, but--
>>NOORY: And tools?
>>OLSEN: Tools, but perhaps
of a different variety.
Tools not so much of a--
>>NOORY: Laser cutters?
>>OLSEN: You're kind of
going in that direction.
>>NOORY: I'm getting close.
There's a clip from "Monumental
Mystery" about Machu Picchu.
And I want to look
at the clip, and then
have you tell us
about Machu Picchu,
because that comes up
a lot in discussion.
>>OLSEN: Sure.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- But is there better evidence
elsewhere of a much older
knowledge at work?
The answer may lie at what is
South America's crowning glory,
Machu Picchu.
The magnificent site
lay hidden from view
in the highland jungle until an
American archaeologist stumbled
upon it in 1911.
It is commonly
dated by the study
of the human remains found there
at between 1,000 to 1,500 years
old.
In the search for some
dissenting voices on the issue,
Hancock mentions only
one-- a German scholar
working in the 1930s
who said that it
was conceivable that
the site may date back
2,000 to 3,000 years.
He arrived at this dating by
aligning the constellations
of the stars with
points on the ground,
suggesting that they
would only have matched
two or three millennia ago.
Professor Ballon of Lima
University cannot agree with
this radical re-dating
of Machu Picchu.
But we have a
precise chronology.
Machu Picchu has been
radiocarbon dated
at between 1450 and 1470 AD.
Hancock also brings
to his argument
the legend of the Viracoches.
This is a local
legend that speaks
of a race of wise
and bearded men
from the mountains who made
this city long ago, long
before the Incas existed.
This is no more than a legend.
Peruvian culture
stands on its own.
It began in 10,000 BC
and ended with the Incas.
The available
scientific evidence
would seem to suggest
that this is a product.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: What's amazing
about that, too, Brad,
just looking at it,
would be the amount
of stones that they used, and
they don't seem to fall off
or anything.
I mean, they're not
cemented, are they?
>>OLSEN: No.
There's no masonry involved.
They're just fitted
together so precisely.
And once again, you see
the oldest and the lowest
megalithic blocks are the best
preserved and constructed.
There is in that video clip a
shot of the Temple of the Sun,
and there are two
windows that you
can see the solstice sunrise
come right through the window.
Of course, it's a
very popular day
to go to Machu Picchu,
when the sun comes
streaming right through.
We were there just a few weeks
before the summer solstice.
>>NOORY: What can you tell
us about Machu Picchu?
>>OLSEN: It's a fascinating site
that was buried in jungle only
110 years ago, before Hiram
Bingham hiked up the Inca Trail
and discovered it--
a scholar much like
an Indiana Jones,
coming from a university
background, Yale University,
and finding it
covered in jungle.
But it also had very venomous
snakes, so it took a while,
and many people died,
to clear out the jungle.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>OLSEN: Oh, yeah.
>>NOORY: Attacked by snakes?
>>OLSEN: Sure.
>>NOORY: Oh, horrible.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Horrible.
What makes Machu
Picchu so remarkable?
>>OLSEN: First of
all, the setting.
You were talking
about an 8,900 foot
plateau which is held by
several series of terraces.
There are three kinds of
terraces at Machu Picchu.
One are for erosion control,
others are agricultural,
and other kinds of terraces were
used for ceremonial purposes.
So it was a very sacred place.
How they got them there
and how they placed them so
precisely is one of the great
mysteries of Machu Picchu.
>>NOORY: You narrated a
video on Machu Picchu.
>>OLSEN: Mm.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Yes, here we are.
The terraces above incredibly
beautiful Machu Picchu.
That is Hiram Picchu.
This is the deep valley below,
with jagged-peak mountains.
Moving way up there, some
snow-peaked mountains.
But nothing compares to
the view of Machu Picchu.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Can you imagine
that city flourishing back
in its heyday?
>>OLSEN: Turns out, there
weren't even that many people--
just a few hundred,
because that's
all the agricultural
terraces would support.
It was very much
a royal enclave.
>>NOORY: Sure was.
>>OLSEN: Amazingly enough,
George, water still flows.
You could still take
a drink of water.
>>NOORY: Like it always did?
>>OLSEN: Like it always did.
And water, of course, would
be critical to agriculture
and, of course, drinking.
>>NOORY: Was it one of
the wonders of the world?
>>OLSEN: It was.
Of course, it was only
discovered 108 years ago,
but it's in the modern wonders
of the world category--
not of the ancient
wonders, which
only the Great Pyramid exists.
>>NOORY: There's a ritual
stone at Machu Picchu.
What is that?
>>OLSEN: Well, that is
the Inti Raymi Stone,
on top of a plateau where
this carved stone right out
of the living rock
acts as a sundial,
and seasons can be predicted--
which, if you think, if you
were a mostly agricultural--
>>NOORY: You need to know that.
>>OLSEN: --community, you
need to know that information.
Sure.
Your life depends on it.
>>NOORY: So they must have
had some kind of scientists
available during that
time period, too?
>>OLSEN: We think there were
more high priests of shaman
that would interpret
the seasons,
and look at the sun rays
coming through these windows
in the Temple of the Sun
to understand the planting
seasons, the rainy seasons.
>>NOORY: What did you
learn about Machu Picchu
on this trip?
>>OLSEN: For one, it
was everything people
have thought it to be.
It is equally impressive,
or even overwhelming--
the scale, the proportion, the
amount of megalithic stones
that could be found.
Just every turn you
make, it's something
that just is awe-inspiring.
And of course, the setting
that it's in, with the giant
jagged mountains all around--
and the sacred Hiram
Picchu right there, too,
which is in the shape of
a face lying on its back.
It was a sacred place
because it was believed
that this was a
shaman in the rock,
that it was a living entity that
the people were living inside
of.
>>NOORY: Now, the Incan culture,
weren't they of small stature?
>>OLSEN: Yes, very
small stature to be
able to move these blocks.
But the re-dating
of these stones,
as Graham Hancock mentioned,
and Brien Foerster and Nassim
Harriman, that there was
pre-Incan architecture there
pre-existing.
The Incans merely
came in and said, hey,
this is a great
site already here.
Why don't we just add
a few things onto it?
And you can clearly see
the two building styles--
one megalithic,
finely cut, precisely
fitted, and others of a more
inferior nature on top of that.
>>NOORY: So they came into the
system of a civilization that
has been gone that may have
built this, and simply said,
we want to do a little
cosmetic change to it.
>>OLSEN: And make the Incan
road a little bit better,
and you can hike up to it.
George, there are hundreds of
miles, perhaps a 1,000 miles
of Inca Trail to get there.
And that's how Hiram
Bingham found the site.
>>NOORY: How did they
carve out the trails?
>>OLSEN: Right from
the living rock,
placing stones, building steps.
And there's also megalithic
buildings along the way, too.
On our second day there, we
did a hike up the Inca Trail
to another Temple of the Sun,
where the solstice sunrise
comes right through
the Temple of the Sun,
then five miles away into that
window at the Temple of the Sun
there.
So they had a precise
knowledge of the seasons
and the rising of the sun.
It just leads me to
believe that, again, there
is some kind of lost
science or lost knowledge
that these people employed
in their building.
>>NOORY: Is there
anything there that
looks like it could
be a UFO landing pad?
>>OLSEN: That's what Nassim
kept saying, that there
was a big platform, a big
terrace a little bit lower,
and he kept pointing it out.
That's where you
could land the craft!
>>NOORY: Well, maybe?
>>OLSEN: We're leaving it open.
There was certainly--
>>NOORY: Something
move these stones.
>>OLSEN: Something that it's
moving these stones, something
that compelled them to build
at a very difficult location.
Why not just build
down in the valley,
where it'd be much easier
to take a boat or walk?
>>NOORY: When you walked
around it and looked at it,
what did you think?
>>OLSEN: That it was
highly protective,
that if you wanted to hide
away from, say, an enemy--
if the Incans or
even the pre-Incans
wanted to keep their
royal family safe,
that it would be a very
protected spot, because it's
just basically sheer cliff
walls on three sides of it,
and then a very
narrow Inca Trail
to access it from another way.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
Tell us about these
three terraces.
>>OLSEN: So the three
terraces were ceremonial,
all around the main
ceremonial area,
where people of the city could
come out on important days
and the high priest could
perform rituals and--
>>NOORY: Sacrifices?
Were they into that
kind of culture?
>>OLSEN: I don't
recall any bodies being
found in a sacrificial manner.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>OLSEN: But they did
have some caves there.
There is a cave system
underneath Machu Picchu.
>>NOORY: Underneath?
>>OLSEN: Oh yeah.
>>NOORY: Sophisticated?
>>OLSEN: Sophisticated.
And it looks-- they wouldn't
let us in there, unfortunately,
but it does look
like there was some--
>>NOORY: Why didn't
they let you in?
>>OLSEN: Well, maybe
because there's so
many people that go there.
It is the most visited
site in South America.
Perhaps, and just so
many thousands of people
visit every day.
There would be no
capacity for doing that.
>>NOORY: Maybe they
think it could collapse?
>>OLSEN: Perhaps, or just
people get stuck in there
or claustrophobic.
>>NOORY: Well, maybe there's
something else in there that--
>>OLSEN: I would
think there might be.
Yeah.
And so the other
terraces had to do
with the agricultural
farming of the area,
and also propping
it up, because we're
talking about a major
plateau on an isthmus of land
between two mountains.
And if it rains a lot there,
there would be erosion.
>>NOORY: Everything slides down.
Mudslides.
You can imagine this
all falling apart.
But again, what's
fascinating is,
when you look at the
rocks, the stones,
they're just perfectly
put together.
All of them.
There must be thousands
of stones out there!
>>OLSEN: Thousands and
thousands of stones,
so precisely put together.
Some of the historians that
I heard talking to other tour
groups will say that
this was the royal Incan
style of creating
these megaliths,
that they just put more
attention into doing it.
But since the whole
compound was for royalty,
why not do everything
in that way?
Why would there be inferior
stone constructions
on top of very sophisticated
megalithic blocks?
>>NOORY: Could you tell,
Brad, if the structure
had rooms to it?
And if so, what were the
rooms for, do you think?
Were they quarters to sleep?
>>OLSEN: There were
definitely rooms.
There were some rooms
that had windows that
were very strategically placed.
There were also buildings
with arched roofs
that would have had
wood or thatched
roofs that are since long gone.
There were housing
areas for royalty.
There were housing areas for
agricultural workers, which
were more inferior in design.
There were also-- you
could see pole holes
for second-story dwellings,
and very sophisticated designs,
including little
holes for chimneys,
building fires in there.
>>NOORY: How many
other places do
you think could be like Machu
Picchu which we haven't even
found yet?
>>OLSEN: There could
still be some out there.
The jungles are
still very thick.
Yeah.
Remember, there were some sonar
scans of the Amazon jungle,
and they did find a city with
pyramids completely covered
in forest and jungle
that I don't believe
has been excavated yet.
And of course, they
still find new pyramids
in the jungles of
Central America that
are linked to the Mayans.
>>NOORY: It is remarkable.
Are other scientists
looking at this area?
And if so, what are they saying?
>>OLSEN: Well, they should
be, because it really
does redefine what we
know about ancient people
and their building techniques.
>>NOORY: Why aren't
we investigating this?
We've got the science to do it.
>>OLSEN: It seems that
there are roadblocks.
It seems there are certain
institutions, perhaps
some of our learning
institutions
that like this cookie-cutter
model of history,
that think that Columbus
made this unique discovery
of a continent that was already
occupied by millions of people,
or that they didn't
have technology
that's above our own.
It's almost egocentric to
think that an antediluvian
civilization could have
had building techniques
that we still don't
understand today.
>>NOORY: Brad, tell us
about Lake Titicaca.
>>OLSEN: Lake Titicaca is
the highest alpine lake
in the world, also the largest.
It's so large, George, you
can't even see across it.
It's over 100 miles in length--
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>OLSEN: --from north to south.
>>NOORY: What
replenishes the lake?
>>OLSEN: Well, there are
streams that are seasonal,
and rivers sometimes
that dry up,
and others that will have
glacier melt that fill it up.
There are many streams and
rivers that come into it,
and only one exit
river out, and that
goes down to the salt plains
called Salar de Uyuni, also
in Bolivia.
>>NOORY: You've
been on the lake.
>>OLSEN: I have, in
Peru and Bolivia,
out to several of the islands.
>>NOORY: Let's take a look.
>>OLSEN (ON VIDEO): Cruise
along on Lake Titicaca.
This is the Peru side.
Here's our other sister ships,
coming out of the Bay of Puno
and heading out to a couple
of the islands for a day
trip on Lake Titicaca,
the largest alpine
lake in the world.
>>NOORY: It's huge.
You're right.
You weren't kidding.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
>>NOORY: Are there
fish in that lake?
>>OLSEN: There are.
There are fish that are
unique to that lake.
There's also underwater
ruins on the Bolivian side
that they discovered
a couple decades ago.
>>NOORY: What kind of ruins?
>>OLSEN: Megalithic block ruins.
>>NOORY: Like Machu Picchu?
>>OLSEN: Underwater roads.
Not quite of that quality
or high level of building,
but enough to say that there
are underwater ruins in Lake
Titicaca.
What's also remarkable is, there
is a freshwater seahorse that
lives in only Lake Titicaca.
That would give some
credibility to the fact that
at one time, maybe Lake Titicaca
had been connected to the sea,
and had rose up in
this cataclysmic event
that we hear of-- perhaps a
pole shift that moved continents
around.
And the seahorses were
trapped in the lake,
and just adapted to
freshwater as the salinity had
changed with all the freshwater
streams coming into it.
>>NOORY: Lake
Titicaca is considered
to be pretty legendary.
How come?
>>OLSEN: Well it
is the origin point
of the Incan people from
the Island of the Sun,
and the Island of the Moon
are two very sacred islands
on the Bolivian side.
It is the emergence point
where the Incan people believe
that they came out of
the Earth and emerged
onto the planetscape.
>>NOORY: Well,
you just mentioned
the Island of the Sun.
Pictures are worth
a thousand words.
>>OLSEN (ON VIDEO): Here is the
top of the Island of the Sun.
There's the Island of the
Moon, and Bolivia side.
Big white-capped mountains.
And Lake Titicaca, the
largest, highest navigable lake
in the world.
>>NOORY: Did I just noticed a
lot of snow on those mountains?
>>OLSEN: You sure did.
It's ringed by snow-capped
mountains on all sides.
>>NOORY: Well, that must
help feed the lake as well.
>>OLSEN: Correct.
The glaciers that
melt feed the lake.
>>NOORY: Brad, the one
thing I didn't notice
is, I didn't see any population
around the lake at all.
Is it pretty desolate?
>>OLSEN: It's fairly desolate.
There are villages, but
they're pretty small.
Being at such a
high elevation, I
think living up at that level is
quite challenging in the amount
of crops you can grow.
You did notice some agricultural
terraces there on the Island
of the Sun, and people
do still raise llamas
and grow in the agricultural
terraces some crop.
>>NOORY: How close is
that to the Nazca Lines
that Eric von Daniken
and wrote about
in "Chariots of the Gods"?
>>OLSEN: Well, that
is down the slope
on the Peruvian side, probably
about 300 or 400 miles away,
on the Nazca Plateau.
>>NOORY: That far?
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
Peru's a pretty big country.
It's probably about
the size of California.
>>NOORY: Is there a
secret about this region?
We looked at Machu Picchu with
its incredible stone blocks
and things.
This, I see, is just
the wonder of God.
>>OLSEN: It is.
It's such a beautiful, sacred
lake to the Incan people,
to the cultures that
still live there.
The Bolivian people,
too, are equally
colorful in their
clothing, and they still
come out there and do rituals.
There are some reed
boats that are there
on the Island of the
Sun, where they'll
come out on solstice dates and
other important ritual dates.
And it's still very
important to the people
to go there as a
pilgrimage site.
>>NOORY: Brad tell
us a little bit more
about the Island of the Sun.
Exactly what is it?
>>OLSEN: Well, it is one of
the largest islands in Lake
Titicaca, and it's
special because there
are megalithic buildings there.
There are old temple
sites and ruins
that you can visit, as well
as just being so beautiful,
as we saw, with views
in all directions.
Kind of reminded me
of the Greek islands,
looking out at the vast
landscape in the Aegean Sea
with other different islands.
And in Incan culture, there is
always a male and female side.
The Island of the Sun
was the male side,
where the Island of the Moon,
which we saw in the video
clip-- much smaller,
but more feminine.
And there were flowers that were
laid out in mandala boutiques.
The temples were more
modest and more rounded,
as a woman may be.
And it's the dichotomy
of the two-- the male
and the female, the
masculine and the feminine,
which was worshipped
by the Incan people,
and can be seen in
their architecture
and how they interpreted the
lay of the land, these islands.
>>NOORY: Do you feel anything
metaphysical about this region?
>>OLSEN: You can't help but
feel it's a very spiritual site
to the people.
And I think, in
metaphysical ways,
it's infectious on the
visitor to go there and visit
these places and to be able
to go and see the same things
that the Incan people did, go
up the steps that they built.
And the Inca Trail continues on
here in Lake Titicaca as well.
>>NOORY: The two
boats that you used
when you cruised Lake Titicaca
in that island area, were they
stationed there?
Or do-- how did
they get them there?
>>OLSEN: Well, that was out
of the Bay of Puno, which
was on the Peruvian side.
And we are going out to
some of the islands that
still have the most intact
genetic people of Incan origin.
Until most recent
times, when the people
could leave the island,
there was a problem
with interbreeding, because
they had just been so isolated
on some of these islands.
But it had retained
their genetic structure
more than other
places where people
had intermingled a lot more.
>>NOORY: Were they
breeding with relatives?
>>OLSEN: Sometimes.
>>NOORY: Sounds like that's
what you were saying, yeah.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Did that
create any problems?
>>OLSEN: It did.
It did.
There were some
diseases that could
take hold a little easier.
Now they're encouraging
the younger people
to intermingle more, to
go to the mainland more.
And unfortunately,
that has also led
to the culture being watered
down and not adhered to.
And some of the local dialects
are starting to die out,
and some of the languages
are starting to fade.
>>NOORY: And this
is an Incan culture?
>>OLSEN: Correct-- the
remnants of the Incans,
the Peruvian people
who still retain
much of the genetic
stock of the Incans.
So they do look very indigenous
they still wear pretty
much the indigenous clothes.
But some of them are
wearing Western clothes.
And there is a
language that they're
trying to help keep preserve,
but about 40, 50 years ago,
they discouraged it from
being learned in school,
and they wanted everybody
to speak Spanish.
>>NOORY: What is the
difference between the Inca
and the Mayan cultures?
>>OLSEN: Well,
geographically, they're
quite different, being Central
America and South America.
Both high cultures that
built in megalithic--
>>NOORY: Very
intelligent people.
>>OLSEN: Highly intelligent,
highly productive
agricultural growing regions.
And had these
incredible monuments
that they built for their
culture and their religions.
>>NOORY: And what do you think
the indigenous population might
have been in that area?
>>OLSEN: In the area
of Peru and Bolivia,
probably not more
than a million or two.
It's grown since, but--
>>NOORY: Seems like a
lot, but it's not, is it?
>>OLSEN: It would
seem like it's a lot,
but you have to understand,
the Incan empire at its height
went all the way from the
country of what is now
Columbia all the way down to
northern Chile and southern
Bolivia.
So it's a span of about
1,500 miles, all connected
with this Inca road system.
>>NOORY: Pretty
dramatic, isn't it, Brad?
>>OLSEN: Truly dramatic, to
think that they could build up
and over the Andean mountains--
which are the second-highest
mountain range in the world,
only after the Himalayas--
but to have this
intricate road system that
could go through
valleys, over mountains,
and up on the Altiplano, this
very high treeless plain.
It's a truly remarkable
feat of building.
>>NOORY: Tell us
about Tiahuanacu.
>>OLSEN: Tiahuanacu is one
of the most sacred places
off the shore of Lake Titicaca.
It's the only site that is
recognized by all academics
as being pre-Incan.
And it is also featuring
many megalithic blocks
and showing signs of
a great cataclysm that
had destroyed much of the site.
>>NOORY: Oh, really?
Like an earthquake, you think?
>>OLSEN: Well,
something that was
able to fling megalithic
blocks in multiple directions.
I would say even more
than just an earthquake,
but some kind of
massive cataclysm.
>>NOORY: Had to have
happened from beneath
and then pushed it out, right?
>>OLSEN: It would seem
so, because at the site
called Puma Punku, which
is only a kilometer away
from Tiahuanacu.
it's just scattered
about like a Lego
set that just got destroyed.
>>NOORY: That's unbelievable.
That's kind of
bizarre, isn't it?
>>OLSEN: It is kind
of bizarre, but when
put in perspective with some of
the other signs of a cataclysm
that we saw in Peru and
other sites in Bolivia,
it kind of makes sense that
this whole region perhaps
came rising up from the ocean
area, and some of these ruins
were in a state of ruin because
they had just been broken up.
And as we spoke of with these
megalithic blocks, usually
they can retain their structure.
But maybe this region
had a little bit more
shaking than the
other regions, and was
more in a state of
disrepair than some
of the megalithic sites in Peru.
>>NOORY: Let's take a
look at some of your work.
>>OLSEN (ON VIDEO): Here we are
in the semi-subterranean temple
at Tiahuanacu, one of the
most famous and photographed
locations of this pre-Inca
temple and political complex,
with these very enigmatic
faces where all but six
are originals.
Some look like skulls.
Some look like
aliens with bug eyes.
Maybe they were
the priestly caste.
Maybe they were royalty.
Maybe they were people
that lived here,
that worshipped here.
Or maybe they were something
altogether different.
It appears that these white ones
are the artificial ones, where
all the rest are
originals, according
to the placard just above.
Now, when this temple
was discovered,
these walls were all
in a jumbled mess,
including these heads.
And some archeologists,
like Brien Foerster,
think that it was assembled
in a different way
than it was originally,
and therefore thinks
that perhaps this particular
site shouldn't be represented
in the way it was.
But what's the alternative?
Leaving it in a jumbled
mess, or giving us
an opportunity to see it in
its semi-reconstructed state?
Now, this was also
the location where
they found the Pachamama
monolith, which
is now in the museum.
7.3 meters tall.
And these monoliths were also
found here, and remain here.
See the serpent
going up the side,
and the hands pulling
ritual objects,
and the long years
similar to Easter Island.
Quite a fascinating site.
The semi-subterranean
temple at Tiahuanacu.
>>NOORY: Those were amazing.
>>OLSEN: Truly.
>>NOORY: And those
figurines were bizarre.
>>OLSEN: They're very bizarre.
And they're reminiscent of
the Easter Island heads, which
also have the long ears
and holding ritual objects,
or their hands
across their belly.
>>NOORY: They looked a little
extraterrestrial to me, Brad.
>>OLSEN: With the big bug
eyes, the heads in the wall
were very strange.
They do not look like humans
as we would know each other.
>>NOORY: Like they depicted
something that they saw.
>>OLSEN: Or perhaps
were visited by.
>>NOORY: Who were
the Viracocha people?
>>OLSEN: Those are
the pre-Incans.
That is what's recognized
as the progenitor
race of South America.
>>NOORY: We're
convinced of that.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
Even your most
standard archaeologist
will agree that
Tiahuanacu is pre-Incan,
and it shows signs that it had
led or influenced the Incans
to build in the way they did.
>>NOORY: What do they bring
to the table, the Viracocha?
>>OLSEN: Well, you did see
some giant mega Lithia blocks
in between the reconstructed
semi-subterranean temple there.
>>NOORY: Tell me a little
bit about Puma Punku.
>>OLSEN: Puma Punku.
Is this other site that's
just a kilometer away,
but has these extremely
precisely cut blocks that many
people have gone there to
examine and still cannot figure
out how such hard stone such
as andesite could have such
precisely cut right angles
built into the stone.
And again, this site is in a
state of complete disrepair.
There's really nothing
that fits together anymore.
Everything's just
in a jumbled mess.
But the stones are
so precisely cut
that this is a very
important location
to examine for the high
technology used in the stone
cutting of these blocks.
>>NOORY: Brad, tell
me about the theme
of your research, Nassim
Haramein's research, Brien
Foerster's research.
It's not just a travel log
of this incredible area
in South America.
There's got to be a reason why
you're looking at these spots.
Tell me why.
>>OLSEN: We are
looking at them because
of their incredible importance
in the historical record
for high technology
being employed
at these sites in a
very distant past.
The timelines are not right.
The technology acknowledgment
of how these things were built
is not right.
We're not talking
about chiseling them.
We're talking about high
machinery techniques--
including some drill
holes, George--
that are just so precise
that you couldn't bore them
out just using--
>>NOORY: Drill holes?
>>OLSEN: Drill holes.
Just perfectly rounded holes
at Puma Punku that just show--
>>NOORY: Just amazing.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
These incredible, precisely
fit and engineered block
techniques that our
machinery, using
against very hard stone
with diamond cutters,
are just able to do in
the last few decades.
>>NOORY: Brad, compare
this with the pyramids.
Do you see any
similarities here?
>>OLSEN: I see
many similarities,
and I spent a month in Egypt
going to all the sites.
And what we find is some
similarities, such as in Peru,
what looks like trowel marks--
that stone could
have been shaped
when it was in a different--
>>NOORY: Or poured?
>>OLSEN: --plasma form,
or poured, in Egypt,
in Peru, as well as the
megalithic blocks that
are so precisely fit together.
And in both cases,
George, the older
the culture, the
higher technology
and the more refined state that
these megaliths were built.
>>NOORY: Why can't we find
remnants of tools and artifacts
and things like that
at these places?
It's almost as if they were
pilfered and taken away.
Something happened to them.
>>OLSEN: Right.
And just like you don't see the
chisel marks in these stones--
>>NOORY: No.
>>OLSEN: --there is some
kind of tool or technology
that was employed that
has been lost to the ages.
>>NOORY: What's fascinating
to me, too, Brad,
is not only the construction
of the structures,
but the physical
cutting of the blocks--
which were done five miles
away, or something like that--
and then transported to them.
You're talking, again,
about thousands of blocks.
How many trips would that have
been with conventional travel?
>>OLSEN: It boggles
the mind to think
how long it would
have taken to build
some of these constructions.
And then you have to
ask yourself, why?
Why would they go to such
lengths to build pyramids?
And what were those used for?
>>NOORY: Right.
>>OLSEN: And there are
pyramids at Tiahuanacu as well,
and Puma Punku.
>>NOORY: Do they resemble
the pyramids of Giza?
>>OLSEN: They resemble more
of the pyramids of Sakkara.
They're step pyramids that
go up at different layers.
There are levels to them, and
seven levels at the larger
pyramid at Tiahuanacu.
>>NOORY: But where's
the machinery?
Where is it?
>>OLSEN: It's non-existent.
>>NOORY: Was it flown away?
>>OLSEN: Or it was destroyed.
>>NOORY: I mean, if I
were to say to you, Brad,
I want one theory from you
of how these were built--
just one-- what would
you say at this point?
And you were there.
You saw this.
>>OLSEN: I did see this.
I would say it was employing
auditive levitation.
It was moving blocks in ways
that we still can't quite
understand how to
move heavy objects.
>>NOORY: How would you even cut
the blocks in the first place?
>>OLSEN: That's the part two.
>>NOORY: And then pull
them out of the quarry.
How do you do that?
>>OLSEN: And how do you fit
them together like precise LEGO
blocks, in such a way that
they could withstand great--
>>NOORY: Exactly.
And aren't they fit together
before they're put together?
>>OLSEN: Some of them are,
such as some of the megaliths
that even have little
niches in the blocks when
they're disassembled.
They're found to fit
together even more precisely
on top of each other,
much like Stonehenge
has the little nodes where
the mega lists fit on top
of the standing trioliths.
>>NOORY: Could we make
these structures today
with conventional equipment?
>>OLSEN: They've
tried and failed.
I don't think our conventional
building technique is really--
>>NOORY: With cranes, with
saws, with everything we have,
we could not duplicate this?
>>OLSEN: It would be an
extreme cost to do it,
and you'd have to
ask yourself, why?
Why would you employ so much
labor, effort, and technology
to build something
in such a large scale
unless it was very important
to you and the builders
to have it done this way?
>>NOORY: Well, now, that is an
interesting thing you bring up.
What do you think the function
of these structures might be?
>>OLSEN: Certainly ceremonial.
Somehow it had a
religious importance
to the people, especially
the priestly caste who
would have employed
the building of them,
that they would have
really sensed that it was
important to build in this way.
>>NOORY: I think these
structures-- now,
this is my theory--
that these places have some
way of pulling in the energy
from the universe or the planet.
And if you're there in
the middle of it, near it,
you get energized.
And I think these things
are like healing apparatuses
for the ancients at the time.
I think, like most people
who go to a spa today,
I think that's what they did.
I think they went
there, stood there
in the middle of this
thing, got bombarded
with all kinds of things,
and they felt better.
What do you think?
>>OLSEN: You might be onto
something there, George,
in that there was some
kind of chamber aspect--
just like in the King's Chamber
of the Great Pyramid that
has a resonance effect of
being around the stones,
that perhaps if they were
hit with a certain kind
of frequency, might
energize the human body.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
And let's assume they
were there en masse--
300 people in a circle at one
time, getting this energy force
hit at them.
It could happen.
>>OLSEN: Maybe that's what
motivated the workers to go
to such great efforts to
work with such heavy stones--
that if the technology failed
and auditive levitation came
down on them, they
felt like maybe
they were working
on something that
had far greater importance.
>>NOORY: Did you feel
energized when you were there,
or did you feel tired and weak?
>>OLSEN: No, actually.
We were doing group meditations
with Nassim Haramein
and the 150 people
that were there
with the Resonance Foundation.
They gave us all these
art crystals to wear.
I was participating.
I was doing the om-ing.
And it did seem to
energize us and make
us feel a little bit
better, especially
in some of these
locations surrounded
by these megalithic blocks
and architectural style.
>>NOORY: You could feel that
vibrating in your system.
>>OLSEN: That's right.
And with the blocks
around it, there
were even some niches
in Ollantaytambo
that you could put
your head in, and we
all om-ed at the same time.
There are 12 of them in a row.
And you could feel the resonance
of all the other people doing
it at the same time.
And it was just this
deep resonance sound,
which the people of India
say that the om sound is
the sound of the universe.
>>NOORY: I love that.
Would you go back again?
>>OLSEN: Oh, you bet.
Love to go.
>>NOORY: How do people
get a hold of you, Brad?
>>OLSEN: Oh, you can
find me on bradolsen.com
or CCC Publishing.
>>NOORY: Spell your
last name for us.
>>OLSEN: B-R-A-D, O-L-S-E-N.
>>NOORY: And since
you've been doing this--
which is how many years now?
>>OLSEN: 25.
>>NOORY: How would you
categorize this region
based on all the other
places you've been?
And you've been to a lot.
>>OLSEN: I have been all
seven continents now, George.
And I would say it's definitely
up there with the Angkor
Wats of the world, the Great
Pyramid and Egyptian sites,
and the Incan sites are my top
three favorite in the world.
>>NOORY: Brad, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief".
>>OLSEN: Always a
pleasure with you, George.
Thanks for having me on.
>>NOORY: This is fascinating
just to try to figure out,
how did these structures get
built thousands of years ago?
It defies our imagination.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]